CA2025 Analyzer documentation (#46051)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2025.md

Reviewer: Can you add this to the TOC file on [this line](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/blob/ec5327543b396103adfc4f6a24ec9141dc40e788/docs/navigate/tools-diagnostics/toc.yml#L1169)?

Author: Done

---
title: "CA2025: Do not pass 'IDisposable' instances into unawaited tasks"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA2025 - Do not pass 'IDisposable' instances into unawaited tasks"
ms.date: 05/08/2025
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - CA2025
  - DoNotPassDisposablesIntoUnawaitedTasksAnalyzer
helpviewer_keywords:
  - CA2025
author: steveberdy
dev_langs:
- CSharp

> - VB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

...since you don't have a VB example, this isn't necessary.

---

# CA2025: Do not pass 'IDisposable' instances into unawaited tasks

| Property                            | Value                                                |
|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA2025                                               |
| **Title**                           | Do not pass 'IDisposable' instances into unawaited tasks |
| **Category**                        | [Reliability](reliability-warnings.md)               |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                                         |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 10**   | As warning                                           |

## Cause

An `IDisposable` instance is passed into an unawaited task and potentially disposed before the task is finished using the instance.

## Rule description

> Unawaited tasks that use `IDisposable` instances may use those instances long after they have been disposed. Ensure tasks using those instances are completed before the instances are disposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unawaited tasks that use `IDisposable` instances might use those instances long after they've been disposed. Ensure tasks using those instances are completed before the instances are disposed.
```

## Examples

> The following code snippets (and their VB equivalents) are violations of CA2025:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code snippets (and their Visual Basic equivalents) are violations of CA2025:
```

```csharp
public Task DoSomethingAsync()
{

>     // Using statements and using blocks can both be violations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Using statements and using blocks can both be violations.
```

    using (var disposable = new DisposableThing())
    {
        return DoSomethingInternalAsync(disposable);
    }
}
```

```csharp
public async Task DoThingsAsync()
{
    var disposable = new DisposableThing();
    var task = DoSomethingInternalAsync(disposable);

>     // More code here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // More code here.
```

    dispose.Dispose();

>     // It's a violation if arguments are disposed before the task is awaited

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // It's a violation if arguments are disposed before the task is awaited.
```
